1. "I wish I had my soma!" (116). Lenina wants to take soma to alleviate some horror from the sights she has seen, but do you think that having soma would help her at this point? Why are the characters so vulnerable without it? Use the information you have on the characters' past experiences with soma.
I believe that soma would help her cope by taking her mind off of it just like a hobby would. Characters are vulnerable without it just like people are are vulnerable without friends they begin to rely on it/them and then when it’s taken away they become more vulnerable.
2. "And in the end I suppose I got used to it" (121). Linda was born in the World State, but as a young woman she gets lost in the Savage Reservation and winds up staying there. She grows somewhat accustomed to it, but all in all has a bad life. If the World State fell, do you think its citizens (people like Linda) could create another type of civilization? How could they survive in "savage" territory?    
	If the word state fell a new similar government would rise up as this is what the people would want. They would simply not be in “savage” territory as they would all work to keep things “civilized”.
3. "With a piece of charcoal she drew pictures on the wall - an animal sitting down, a baby inside a bottle; then she wrote letters" (129). Linda teaches John how to read and write, skills not possessed by the other boys in the reservation. Does John think this gives him an advantage? Why? What is Huxley saying about the importance of literacy?
	John thinks it gives him an advantage, although mostly he’s just proud that he can do something the other can’t. Huxley is not saying anything about the importance of literacy here he is merely showing how an adolescent is proud that they have a talent that his peers don't have.
4. "'Alone, always alone,' [John] was saying. The words awoke a plaintive echo in Bernard's mind. Alone, alone... 'So am I,' he said, on a gush of confidingness. 'Terribly alone'"(137). How are Bernard and John similar? How are their situations similar?
Both Bernard and John are very similar in that they are outsiders which leads to both of them feeling isolated
5. "He put out his hand... Did he dare?... No, he didn't. The bird was too dangerous.  His hand dropped back" (144). John is enthralled by Lenina's beauty.  He has the desire to touch her; however, he refrains from doing so.  What does this say about John's set of moral standards (or his view on love and sex in general)?  How do his views differ from those of regular people in the World State?  Based on the way John controls himself, would he make a good citizen in the World State?  
John wants to touch Lenina while she is sleeping however he decides not to rape her as he feels this is immoral. However in the World State there is an idea that consent is implied.
6. John's knowledge of Shakespeare is no less than impressive.  How would one in today's society view John and his knowledge of Shakespeare?  How would one in the World State view him?  What evidence is there to support your claim? (Use chapter 3 as a reference.)
	One in today's society would be moderately impressed by his knowledge of shakespeare. However in the world state it would be like someone flaunting their knowledge of something extremely obscene. This is because the idea of a mother or love is considered obscene in the world state.
7. "Laughter broke out, enormous, almost hysterical, peal after peal, as though it would never stop" (151). In this scene, people of the World State are laughing at John (and the Director) for being an actual "son".  John complained about feeling ostracized in his old community.  Do you think John will feel "accepted" in the World State?  Why or why not? 
	John will not feel “accepted” in the World State because he is a father which is considered extremely obscene.
8. When the Director is preparing to tell everyone he is sending Bernard to Iceland, he says, "His intellectual eminence carries with it corresponding moral responsibilities. The greater a man's talents, the greater his power to lead astray. It is better that one should suffer than that many should be corrupted" (148). What is the Director trying to say? What is ironic about his statement? Do you think people listening to the director will recognize that the Director is in a way, a "fake"? 
	The director is saying that he is relocating Bernard to prevent many from being corrupted by him. He also says that the smarter a man is the more people they are able to corrupt. I don’t think people listening to the director will recognize that the Director is a fake because they have no reason to think this.

