In the novel To Kill a Mockingbird, Scout Finch is growing up in a society that has predefined roles for everyone who is a part of it, based on what opportunities and race they are born in. Scout is in a situation where she is pushed on all fronts to grow into a mold that defines the woman of the day, but she is reluctant and refusing to be influenced, which makes the people of Maycomb think she is an immoral and untrustworthy rebel. Through Scout, Harper Lee conveys that people who do not conform to what common values have foreseen for them will often become socially unaccepted, or even outcasts.

Throughout the novel, many people try to make Scout understand what it means to be a lady and do their best to force her into a mold that will make her one. When the Finch family gets together at the Landing for Christmas, Alexandra criticizes Scout for how she is acting and behaving as she grows up. Scout recounts that “Aunt Alexandra’s vision of [Scout’s] deportment involved playing with small stoves, tea sets, and wearing the Add-A-Pearl necklace she gave [Scout] when [Scout] was born” (81). The word “deportment” indicates one’s behaviour and manners, but in this context it signifies the outline that society provides for people to fit into. On a much broader scale, society’s common vision on gender is portrayed by Alexandra’s traditionalist values, that have already paved a path for young women to follow in order to fit a role. All the different toys and sets that Scout lists were made to appeal to young girls, and to funnel them in a track that will make them develop into what a lady of the time was seen to be; Alexandra had gifted Scout such objects back when she was born, indicating that going down this path is not a choice, but merely a customary process.

Even when pressured on many fronts to fit in with everyone else, Scout shows no interest in becoming a lady, as she thinks of it as a different reality. When Alexandra invites the Missionary Circle over for a meeting, Miss Maudie is invited as well, as it is tradition for the circle to invite neighbours. After Miss Maudie openly criticizes the circle’s members’ hypocrisy, Scout notices her aunt giving Maudie a look of gratitude, as the young girl “wondered at the world of women” (233). By saying that she wondered at the social dynamics of even this small group of ladies, Scout means she is at the same time amazed and detached from their world. She is not like the women that are sitting at the table with her, and she also does not count on becoming like them. She does not want to grow into the position of a house lady, as her adventurous nature and her lack of interest in the role show.

When Scout doesn’t conform to the norms society has set for her, the people of Maycomb start seeing her as a social outcast, sometimes calling her crazy and sometimes openly mocking her. When the Missionary Circle meets at the Finch household, Scout is invited to sit with the ladies at the table, Miss Stephanie Crawford asks Scout about her plans for the future. When Scout answers that she is undecided, Miss Crawford pursues the subject, provoking Scout and saying that she thought Scout “‘wanted to be a lawyer, [Scout has] already commenced going to court’” (233). The word “commenced” would indicate to start, to begin, but Miss Crawford uses it in a provoking tone to mock Scout. She refines her language use and vocabulary choice to observe Scout’s reaction and obtain gossip material about her, as she is known to be the “mean gossip” in town. Since Scout expresses interest in items very different from tea sets, stoves and the “Add-A-Pearl necklace” that Alexandra had expected for her to, the young girl is not only seen as a rebel, but she is made fun of. Because Scout is not adhering to the norms that Maycomb has set for her, the people in town are treating her as an inferior individual, and disregarding her opinions, ideas and values as a result.

Throughout the novel, Scout is constantly reminded of how she should be behaving if she wishes to be a lady, but since she expresses little to no interest in those norms, the people of Maycomb start treating her like an outcast. Harper Lee uses Scout to show how someone can be ignored and disregarded if they do not stick to common norms that are traditionalistic and sometimes irrational. Such things still happen today, as our society still defines a specific set of norms and “rules” that people are often pressured into following, because they would otherwise risk losing the benefits of being in such a society.

Social Conventions and Hypocrisy in To Kill A Mockingbird
    In Harper Lee’s To Kill A Mockingbird, the manners in which Atticus Finch and Dolphus Raymond fulfill their roles in society, as opposed to Alexandra Hancock’s ways, communicate their attitudes toward social norms. Atticus, a respected citizen of Maycomb, chooses to defend a black man in court, thereby disrespecting the conventions of Maycomb society in the same way as Dolphus Raymond, who prefers the company of black people to that of whites. Alexandra, on the other hand, is a strict traditionalist and repudiates any behavior not in line with her values. Because her values are similar to those of most Maycomb townpeople, Alexandra is well respected by most (save Scout and Jem), whereas Dolphus Raymond and Atticus are misunderstood and disliked by the less educated majority of the county. Through these interactions, Lee demonstrates that those who are courageous enough to defend their own values over those accepted by the world around them have more powerful moral authority than those who make it their goal to align themselves with their community for the sake of image. This moral authority allows them to live with the knowledge that they have contributed to their society (even against its will) by advancing what they know to be true and just.
	Dolphus Raymond chooses to reject convention by fraternizing with the black community and even marrying a black woman, making him hated by society. However, this frees him from its expectations in life, allowing him to live more freely knowing he has fought the racism of Maycomb. When the children notice him drinking out of his paper sack, Jem explains, “he likes ‘em [black people] better’n he likes us [white people]” and has “a colored woman and all sorts of mixed chillun” (214). A white man with “a colored woman” represents an inexcusable breach from the Jim Crow laws that govern Maycomb, as does their having raised “mixed chillun [children]”. Raymond, however, still chooses to associate himself with the black community simply because “he likes ’em better” than the hypocritical white community. He allows his personal beliefs and values to guide him, rather than follow the figurative guidebook given to him by Maycomb. By doing this, he remains free from the hypocrisy that Maycomb is diseased with, making him wiser. However, this does not come without certain consequences for Dolphus. All the respect that would usually be received by a rich white landowner in Maycomb is gone, and Dolphus, still wanting to enjoy the peace of mind that whites enjoy in Maycomb, needs an excuse for his behavior. He himself, in his encounter with the children, explains why he drinks Coca-Cola out of a paper bag: so that “folks can say Dolphus Raymond’s in the clutches of whiskey---that’s why he won’t change his ways” (268). The brand of an alcoholic is not flattering, but it gives Maycomb a reason for “why he won’t change his ways”. A drunk, in society, is hated but also pitied, which many times cancels out to make the alcoholic a neutral figure, which is exactly what Dolphus Raymond desires. He understands that the only way to avoid hypocrisy is to avoid being bigoted oneself, and that he would not be following his own values if he despised the hate present in the white community and then consorted with it out of self-preservation. His excuse, however, does make a statement that compromises his moral authority, as he remains true to his values, but does not actively defend them. Because of this, he can not live with the peace of mind that he has brought about change to his community, but only that he has not succumbed to the other side.
	Alexandra, on the other hand, is very conservative in her values and actions. She unequivocally echoes the values that can be expected of a small Southern town and in doing so chooses to sacrifice the moral right to authority in favor of being accepted and understood by the more average portion of the Maycomb populace, giving her no moral authority over any other, which leaves her constantly doing all she can to improve herself as an extension of Maycomb rather than as a person. ‘Aunt Alexandra’, as Scout, the text’s narrator, refers to her, has come to live with Atticus and his children for some time, and has immediately changed the order of the house to fit her desires. Importantly, Alexandra disapproves of Calpurnia’s presence as more than a servant, and, when hosting her Missionary Society social circle (which in itself represents quite well the uneducated people of Maycomb), does “not permit Calpurnia to make the delicacies required to sustain the Society through long reports on Rice Christians” (172). Racism is evidently implied, as the use of ‘delicacies’ connotes the requirement of a fine skill to make them. However, one not ‘permited’ to handle these delicacies would be assumed to be clumsy and unskilled, which is exactly what Alexandra believes of Calpurnia. Alexandra, in line with her town’s conventions of racism, sees a conflict between her Society’s noble mission and Calpurnia’s supposed status as a lower person in Maycomb society. Ironically, the Missionary Society does nothing more than gossip about “Rice Christians” and similar matters: they bemoan evil and corruption in the far reaches of the world while ignoring it at home (a Rice Christian is a person, generally Asian, who adopts the Christian faith for material reward, such as rice, rather than out of belief in God). The hypocrisy present in Alexandra’s missionary circle is evident, as Alexandra seems to want to host these gatherings for no reason other than to “[add] to her reputation as a hostess” (172). This makes her the ‘Rice Christian’, as her Missionary Circle does little to advance or even practice their faith. Rather, Alexandra uses it as a way to assure her alignment with Maycomb’s values: she preserves her image as a good Christian by serving the town’s women treats not handled by black people. By doing this, she affirms that she sacrifices her moral authority and her requests’ legitimacy by making it her only goal to conform to Maycomb’s norms, meaning she never has the comfort of having bettered her community. This contrasts strongly to Dolphus Raymond, who follows values based on his analysis of the community as opposed to blindly following those given to him.
	Her brother, Atticus Finch, contrasts strongly in this respect. Atticus, unlike Alexandra, has devoted his life to combat the hypocrisy in Maycomb, and as such has high moral authority over the rest of the town, even more so than Dolphus Raymond. As a result of his moral authority, he lives with confidence in his moral compass and knows that he has fought racism in his community. When explaining to Scout why he risks so much of his social status to defend Robinson, a black man wrongfully charged with the rape of a white woman, he says that “if I didn’t I couldn’t hold up my head in town. [...] I couldn’t even tell you [Scout] or Jem not to do something again” (100). Here, to “hold [one’s] head up in town” connotes holding up one’s dignity, especially when surrounded by one’s peers. Moreover, Atticus “couldn’t even” bring it upon himself to command authority over his own children should he choose to let Tom Robinson die without protesting Maycomb’s cruel racism. Not defending his own values of equality and respect would lead to a conflict within him, showing him to be of a higher moral standing than Alexandra. In fact, he supersedes even Dolphus Raymond in that he does not seek to try to explain his behavior beyond the fact that it is his duty rather than validate the beliefs of others with a harmless excuse. In fact, he takes pride in his work and when spit on by Robert Ewell, the embodiment of the squalid ignorance and bigotry present in Maycomb, he does nothing more than remark casually that he only “wish[es] Bob Ewell wouldn’t chew tobacco” (291). This informal and light remark demonstrates the extent to which Atticus remains elevated above the traditional Maycomb values to be true to himself. In Maycomb, spitting carries much significance, and being spit on is strongly provocative. Atticus, however, does not react to this provocation. Any reaction, in Atticus’s eyes, betrays the judicial ideals he follows, breaking the bond of peace and truth and lowering himself to the level of one who settles arguments by way of physical strength rather than truth. By unabashedly choosing his own values over those of Maycomb and rejecting provocation, Atticus frees himself of the expected hypocrisy and establishes himself as a moral figure above his sister, Alexandra, and even Dolphus Raymond in that he is not afraid to promote his value in public.
	Atticus Finch, along with Dolphus Raymond, exemplifies the power and disadvantages of those who reject their community’s norms in favor of their own through their interactions with other members of their society, demonstrating how their higher moral authority gives them the power to change their society. In the same way, Alexandra Hancock, Atticus’s own sister, lowers herself to the level of those she demeans through her hypocritical and immoral behavior. Harper Lee uses the contrasts between the ways and lives of these characters to show how those who conform out of principle sacrifice the right to a meaningful opinion.

Those Winter Sundays Diagnostic Essay
The theme of Those Winter Sundays by Robert Hayden is familial love. He states how no one would thank his father and yet how he continued to care for him. And how when he was a child he knew little of what love meant.
In the ending of the first stanza illustrates how the speaker regrets not thanking his father for his kindness. After the speaker explains how his father would get up early and lit the fire he stated, “No one ever thanked him” This quotation demonstrates how he remembers how his Father helped him yet was never thanked.
Finally, in the last stanza the speaker states that he feels he didn’t know what love truly meant when he was a child. After explaining how he spoke differently to his father he says, “What did I know, what did I know of love’s austere and lonely offices?” This means that he thinks he knew little of what familial love is because of its plain and simple appearance.
In conclusion, the theme of Those Winter Sundays by Robert Hayden is the love that family members feel for each other. This is clearly seen with how he explains how he regretted treating his father with indifference and now appreciates the love that bonded them.


